# The “Export” of Taiwanese Law to Japan <br> — the Citations of Taiwanese Precedents and Regulations in Japanese Litigations
Lin, Minae C.

## Abstract
Japan and Taiwan both adopt a civil law system influenced by continental Europe, and hence has a tradition of citing foreign precedents and codes in court decisions. It is not rare to find that Taiwanese courts and lawyers cite Japanese law in litigations. On the other hand, the Japanese legal system also refers to the German and American laws in its legal reasoning. However, this article finds that over the past few years, the Taiwanese law has become more widely seen in Japanese litigations. The reason is likely to be attributed to the progressiveness of Taiwanese law, specifically the protection of fundamental rights declared by the latest constitutional interpretation of Taiwan, and the similarity between the Japanese and Taiwanese legal systems.

The usage of Taiwanese law in litigations of Japan has been increasing. To prove this trend, this article takes a statistical analysis with data mining over all published judgements since 1947. By excluding cases involving foreign matters, following are cases citing the Taiwanese law: In case number 2016(Wa)109, the plaintiffs referred to how regulation of leprosy (Hansen’s disease) epidemic had been changed in 1962 to strengthen their claim for national compensation; in cases number 2016(Gyo-U)187 and 2016(Gyo-U)316, the plaintiffs cited J.Y. Interpretation No. 649 of Taiwan that protects the right of equal protection and the right to work; in case number 2019(Wa)267 and other 5 similar cases, the plaintiffs cited the Act for Implementation of J.Y. Interpretation No. 748 to guarantees the freedom of marriage and the right to equality. Through the analysis of the 9 cases mentioned above, this article further explains why the Taiwanese law has been referred by in Japanese litigations, especially the Taiwanese law’s advantages on its protection of fundamental rights.

**Keywords:** Japanese law, citations of Taiwanese law, regulation of leprosy (Hansen’s disease) epidemic, J.Y. Interpretation No. 649 of Taiwan, Act for Implementation of J.Y. Interpretation No. 748 
